cloud functions, cloud sql, compute engine -  app changes - inclusion of metric collection and dash… (#3378)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/google/cloud-functions.md

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/functions.png')} alt="thumbnail icon" width="50"/>

The Google Cloud Functions App enables you to monitor your usage of Google Cloud Functions. The App preconfigured dashboards provide insight into function executions, operations, latency, errors, and failures with help of audit logs and metrics.

> ## Data Types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Log and Metric types
```

This app uses the following :
* [Google Cloud Audit Logs](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/audit/) - Logs events on multiple [GCP services](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/audit/#services), including Cloud Functions.
* [Google Cloud Function Platform Logs](https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/api/platform-logs#cloud_functions) - Debug information of function executions.
* [Google Cloud Function metrics](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-cloudfunctions)

> ### Sample Log Query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sample log query
```

| compare with timeshift 1d 7 avg
```

> ### Sample Metric Query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sample metric query
```

   5. Click **Create Sync**.

## Collecting Metric for the Google Cloud Functions App

> For metric collection in sumo use [GCP Metric source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/). Here are the steps involved

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For metric collection in Sumo Logic use [GCP Metric source](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/).
```

> 1. Setup Google Service Account following the steps [here](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/#google-service-account)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Setup the [Google Service Account](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/#google-service-account).
```

You can use the pre-configured searches and dashboards for visibility into your environment with visual displays of real-time performance analytics and overall usage.

> ### Google Cloud Function - Performance Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Performance Overview
```

> This panel is based on cloud function metrics. See an overview of Google Cloud Function performance including - active functions, number of function execution, number of errors, function distribution by trigger type and number of errors, execution count by project/region, trigger type and error status. Dashboard also list the function by average time execution and memory consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Google Cloud Function - Performance Overview** dashboard uses the cloud function metrics. This dashboard provides an overview of Google Cloud Function performance including - active functions, number of function executions, number of errors, function distribution by trigger type and number of errors, execution count by project/region, trigger type, and error status. This dashboard also lists the function by average time execution and memory consumption.
```

**Execution Status. **A bar chart with the count of execution statuses in the last 24 hours.

> ### Google Cloud Function - Audit Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Audit Events
```

This dashboard works with Google Cloud Audit logs, where Admin activity [audit logs of cloud function are used](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/monitoring/audit-logging). The panels here list recent audit log events along with any unauthorized  audit event, listing audit event with time and any error audit event along with error code and error message.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/google-cloud-functions-statistics.png')} alt="Google Cloud Functions dashboards" />

> ### Google Cloud Function - Performance Details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Performance Details
```

> This panel is based on cloud function metrics. See trends over time for instance count(active and idle), number of executions, execution time, User memory, and outgoing traffic along with execution distribution with status and timeshift comparison of execution time and number of execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Google Cloud Function - Performance Details** dashboard is based on cloud function metrics. See trends over time for instance count (active and idle), number of executions, execution time, User memory, and outgoing traffic along with execution distribution, with status and timeshift comparison of execution time and number of executions.
```
